# Efficient detection and classification of acute lymphoblastic leukemia based on deep convolution neural networks
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is the most common cancer among children. It can lead to death within a few weeks, when it is not diagnosed and treated. The methods of diagnosing this disease are significantly limited and difficult, due to the similar morphological structure of healthy and malignant lymphocytes. That is why it is so important to look for new solutions and exploit the currently intensively developing machine learning techniques. The aim of the study was the correct detection and binary classification images of lymphocytes from healthy patients and those suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukemia, using deep convolutional neural networks. The CNMC-2019 dataset from the Kaggle platform was used. The first part of the work focuses on a theoretical discussion of issues in the field of medicine and deep machine learning. Afterwards, the approach to solving the classification problem by using the trained Xception model was described. To obtain satisfactory results, the network architecture was transformed by adding appropriate layers and modifying hyperparameters using transfer learning. Such operations made it possible to obtain 86% accuracy and 86% correctness of the F1-score parameter, which corresponded to the results of scientific publications from 2019. The aim of the work was achieved. The implemented classifier was learned properly and most of the cases from the test set were correctly assigned. In addition, there are many possibilities and variants that can be used both in terms of data preparation and network training in deep machine learning, using such a comprehensive tool as convolutional neural networks.
